---
layout: lab
title: Introduction to Matlab. Signals.
category: metalab
lab: 1
ready: true
---

## Task 1

Create  two  vectors: $$\mathbf{v_1}  =  [0,    0.1,    0.2,    0.3,    ...,    1]$$, $$\mathbf{v_2}  =  [1,    1.1,    1.2,    1.3,    ...,    2]$$

   * Compute element-per-element product of the vectors.
   * Compute dot product of the vectors. 
   * Compute cross product of the first three elements of the vectors (use `cross` function).

## Task 2

Create the following matrix:

$$
\mathbf{A}=
\begin{bmatrix}
1 &  2 & 3 \\
4 & 10 & 6 \\
7 &  8 &−2 \\
\end{bmatrix}
$$

Create a vector $$ \mathbf{b} = [1, 5, 8] $$
Solve the set of linear equations: $$\mathbf{Ax} = \mathbf{b}^\sf{T}$$.

## Task 3

Using matrix $$\mathbf{A}$$ create a new matrix $$\mathbf{B}$$ (use vertical concatenation `;`):

$$
\mathbf{A}=
\begin{bmatrix}
1 &  2 & 3 \\
4 & 10 & 6 \\
7 &  8 &−2 \\
3 & 12 &-5 \\
\end{bmatrix}
$$

Create a vector $$\mathbf{c} = [1, 5, 8, 6]$$ using the previously defined vector $$\mathbf{b}$$ (use horizontal concatenation operator `,`).

Solve the set of linear equations: $$\mathbf{Bx} = \mathbf{c}^\sf{T}$$  using the least-squares method:

$$
\mathbf{x} = (\mathbf{B}^\sf{T} \mathbf{B})^{-1} \mathbf{B}^\sf{T} \mathbf{c}^\sf{T} 
$$

## Task 4

Generate a random noise digital signal having normal distribution with different parameter sets (use `random` function):

   * **N1** - mean = 0 and standard deviation = 1.0. 
   * **N2** - mean = 2 and standard deviation = 2.
   
Use 512 samples. 

   * **U** - Generate 512 samples of a signal uniformly distributed in the interval $$[1, 3]$$. 

Compute the real mean and standard deviation of every generated signal. 
**What are the differences between observed statistics and underlying processes?**
Plot the generated signals with equal scale of amplitude.

## Task 5

For the signals **N1**, **N2** and **U** generated in previous exercise 
compute their running statistics (mean and standard deviation) and plot the results.

**Example:** for sample data given below:

$$ [1,	2,	3,	2,	3,	4] $$

Expected vector of moving average would be:

$$ [1,	1.5,	2,	2,	2.2,	2.5]$$
	
**Notice:** solutions, in which whole vector of incoming numbers is stored will be scored lower.

## Task 6

For the signal amplitudes **N1**, **N2** and **U** generated in previous exercise 
compute their histograms with 90 bins and 10 bins (use functions `linspace` and `hist`).
Plot the histograms (use the function `bar`).

## Task 7

Use the random number generator to generate 128 numbers between zero and one with an equal probability. 
Create and plot the histogram of this sample vector. 
Repeat the process for 256 samples and add every two consecutive values 
obtained from the random number generator to create a sample of a new signal. 
Plot again its histogram.

Repeat this procedure for 4x128, 6x128 and 8x128 random numbers, 
while adding four, six nad eight consecutive values, appropriately, 
to generate a sample. **Observe the results and comment the different histograms.**


## Points will be cut for
   * repetitive code fragments - instead use loops (e.g. for, while)
   * hardcoded values like vector lengths - instead use variables or function parameters
   * bad code style - for every task create a Matlab function making all the computations, if necessary use more functions for doing internal computations (for task 4, 5 and 6 create signals outside the functions and pass them as an arguments)
   * lack of comments in code
