---
layout: lab
title: Fourier transform
category: metalab
lab: 4
ready: true
single: false
---

## Task 1. Testing FFT.

Start with some arbitrary time domain signal, such as from a random number generator, and run it through the FFT. Next, run the resultant frequency spectrum through the Inverse FFT and compare the result with the original signal. **They should be identical**, except round-off noise.

The second test of proper operation is that the signals **have the correct symmetry**. When the imaginary part of the time domain signal is composed of all zeros (the normal case), the frequency domain of the complex DFT will be **symmetrical around** samples 0 and N/2. When this correct symmetry is present in the frequency domain, the Inverse DFT will produce a time domain that **has an imaginary part composed of all zeros** (plus round-off noise). 



## Task 2. Fourier pairs. 

Generate frequency responses of following signals (use 512 samples):

1. impulse
2. rectangular pulse
3. triangle
4. Gaussian
5. Sinusoid

Present the oscillogram in time domain and the frequency response in two forms: 

* Rectangular (Re, Im)
* Polar (Magnitude, Phase).
    
Give comments to the results.



## Task 3. Operations on signals. 

Add 3 sine waves with different frequencies and phase shifts together (use 512 samples). Perform operations and present its results:

1. shifting the signal by 5 samples,
2. pad the signal with additional 512 zeros,
3. resample the original signal (to 256 and 1024 samples) by approximation and interpolation,
4. put zero samples in-between every two consecutive samples.

Present frequency responses in two forms. Give comments to the results.
